ABOUT SIMON FRASER UNIVERSITY
We are Canada's engaged university, defined by our dynamic integration of
innovative education, cutting-edge research, and far-reaching community
engagement. We are unconventional, fearless, compassionate, approachable and
ready.

IDENTIFICATION
Position Title: Manager, Special Projects
Department/Unit: Office of the Vice-President Research
Supervisor's Title: Director, Research Operations
Position #: 90012345
Employee Group: APSA
Initial Effective Date: 2024-01-15
Last Revised Date: 2024-05-30

POSITION SUMMARY
The Manager, Special Projects is a key resource, responsible for the
identification, design and implementation of a designated portfolio of
high-priority academic and co-curricular projects in support of the overall
goals and objectives of the unit. The Manager provides leadership and support
to advance organization-wide projects, ensuring the achievement of quality
standards, timelines, deliverables and risk mitigation.

DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
1. Manages a portfolio of academic projects (60%)
- Monitoring timelines and providing updates to senior administrators on the
  achievement of project goals and objectives.
- Conducting cost-benefit analysis and research to develop solutions and make
  recommendations in support of decision-making.
2. Prioritizes and identifies current and future projects (40%)
- Managing a strategic roadmap to highlight, track and identify projects within
  a designated portfolio.
- Preparing reports and quantifying issues for senior leadership.

IMPACT OF DECISION MAKING
The Manager, Special Projects is responsible for making decisions regarding:
- The development and implementation of new project management frameworks.
- The prioritization of projects within the designated portfolio.

PROBLEM SOLVING AND LEVEL OF SUPERVISION
Responsible for solving problems related to:
- Conflicting demands for limited project resources across the portfolio.
- Prioritization of workflow to meet inflexible reporting deadlines.

RELATIONSHIPS
Establishes and maintains relationships and alliances. Maintains effective
communication. Shares information and readily determines to whom to go for
relevant information.
Internal Connections: Works closely with faculties and administrative
departments across all three campuses to advance projects.
External Connections: Represents the unit with external project-management
associations and vendor partners.

QUALIFICATIONS
Bachelor's degree in Business Administration, or a relevant discipline and five
years of related project experience, or an equivalent combination of education,
training and experience.
- Excellent knowledge of project management methodologies and frameworks.
- Advanced skills in MS Office including Excel, Word and PowerPoint.
- Ability to exercise mature judgment, initiative, diplomacy and tact.

TERRITORIAL ACKNOWLEDGEMENT AND EDI COMMITMENT
Simon Fraser University respectfully acknowledges the Musqueam, Squamish,
Tsleil-Waututh, Katzie, Kwikwetlem, Qayqayt, Kwantlen, Semiahmoo and Tsawwassen
peoples on whose unceded traditional territories our three campuses reside.
Simon Fraser University is committed to the principle of Employment Equity.

ADDITIONAL CONTEXTUAL INFORMATION
This position may require occasional travel between the Burnaby, Surrey and
Vancouver campuses to support on-site project delivery.
